[RM] Changes 8.13 (#13518)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/changes.rst

  to notations which match a larger part of the term to abbreviate
  (`#12986 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12986>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Fixed:**
  Preventing notations for constructors to involve binders
  (`#13092 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13092>`_,
  fixes `#13078 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13078>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Added:**
  The :n:`@binder` entry of :cmd:`Notation` can now be used in
  notations expecting a single (non-recursive) binder
  (`#13265 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13265>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin, see section :n:`notations-and-binders` of the
  reference manual).
- **Fixed:** Notations understand universe names without getting
  confused by different imported modules between declaration and use
  locations (`#13415 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13415>`_, fixes
  `#13303 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13303>`_, by Gaëtan
  Gilbert).

Tactics
^^^^^^^

- **Added:**
  :tacn:`lia` is extended to deal with boolean operators e.g. `andb` or `Z.leb`.
  (As `lia` gets more powerful, this may break proof scripts relying on `lia` failure.)
  (`#11906 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11906>`_,  by Frédéric Besson).
- **Added:**

>   `apply in` supports several hypotheses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :tacn`apply … in` supports several hypotheses
```

  (`#12246 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12246>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin; grants
  `#9816 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/9816>`_).
- **Removed:**
  The deprecated and undocumented "prolog" tactic was removed
  (`#12399 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12399>`_,
  by Pierre-Marie Pédrot).

> - **Removed:** Removed info tactic that was deprecated in 8.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed:** Removed `info` tactic that was deprecated in 8.5.
```

  (`#12423 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12423>`_, by Jim Fehrle).
- **Added:**

>   Thhe :tacn:`zify` tactic can now be extended by redefining the `zify_pre_hook`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :tacn:`zify` tactic can now be extended by redefining the `zify_pre_hook`
```

  tactic. (`#12552 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12552>`_,
  by Kazuhiko Sakaguchi).
- **Added:**
  The :tacn:`zify` tactic provides support for primitive integers (module :g:`ZifyInt63`).
  (`#12648 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12648>`_,  by Frédéric Besson).
- **Changed:**
  Giving an empty list of occurrences after :n:`in` in tactics is no
  longer permitted. Omitting the :n:`in` gives the same behavior
  (`#13237 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13236>`_,
  fixes `#13235 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13235>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Fixed:**
  Avoiding exposing an internal name of the form :n:`_tmp` when applying the

>   :n:`_` introduction pattern would break a dependency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :n:`_` introduction pattern which would break a dependency
```

  (`#13337 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13337>`_,
  fixes `#13336 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13336>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Fixed:**
  The case of tactics, such as :tacn:`eapply`, producing existential variables
  under binders with an ill-formed instance
  (`#13373 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13373>`_,
  fixes `#13363 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13363>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Deprecated:**
  Undocumented :n:`eauto @nat_or_var @nat_or_var` syntax in favor of new :tacn:`bfs eauto`.
  Also deprecated 2-integer syntax for :tacn:`debug eauto` and :tacn:`info_eauto`.
  (Use :tacn:`bfs eauto` with the :flag:`Info Eauto` or :flag:`Debug Eauto` flags instead.)
  (`#13381 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13381>`_,
  by Jim Fehrle).
- **Removed:**

>   :n:`at @occs_nums` clauses in tactics such as tacn:`unfold`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :n:`at @occs_nums` clauses in tactics such as :tacn:`unfold`
```

  no longer allow negative values.  A "-" before the
  list (for set complement) is still supported.  Ex: "at -1 -2"
  is no longer supported but "at -1 2" is.
  (`#13403 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13403>`_,
  by Jim Fehrle).
- **Removed:**
  A number of tactics that formerly accepted negative
  numbers as parameters now give syntax errors for negative
  values.  These include {e}constructor, do, timeout,
  9 {e}auto tactics and psatz*.
  (`#13417 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13417>`_,
  by Jim Fehrle).

Tactic language
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- **Fixed:**

>   printing of the quotation qualifiers when printing :g:`Ltac` functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Printing of the quotation qualifiers when printing :g:`Ltac` functions
```

  (`#13317 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13317>`_,
  by Cyril Cohen).
- **Fixed:**
  Working around a bug of interaction between + and /(ltac:(...)) cf #13458
  (`#13459 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13459>`_,
  by Cyril Cohen).
- **Added:**
  Adding a test that the notations `{in _, _}` and `{pred _}` from `ssrbool.v` are displayed correctly.
  (`#13473 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13473>`_,
  by Cyril Cohen).

Commands and options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- **Deprecated:**
  :cmd:`Grab Existential Variables` and :cmd:`Existential` commands
  (`#12516 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12516>`_,
  by Maxime Dénès).
- **Removed:**
  In the :cmd:`Extraction Language` command, remove `Ocaml` as a valid value.
  Use `OCaml` instead.  This was deprecated in Coq 8.8, `#6261 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/6261>`_
  (`#13016 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13016>`_, by Jim Fehrle).
- **Changed:**
  When compiled with OCaml >= 4.10.0, Coq will use the new best-fit GC
  policy, which should provide some performance benefits. Coq's policy
  is optimized for speed, but could increase memory consumption in
  some cases. You are welcome to tune it using the ``OCAMLRUNPARAM``

>   variable and report back setting so we could optimize more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  variable and report back on good settings so we can improve the defaults.
```

  e.g. "constr:global" -> "global", "Prim.name" -> "name".
  Visible in the output of :cmd:`Print Grammar` and :cmd:`Print Custom Grammar`.
  (`#13096 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13096>`_,
  by Jim Fehrle).
- **Changed:**
  When declaring arbitrary terms as hints, unsolved
  evars are not abstracted implicitly anymore and instead
  raise an error
  (`#13139 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13139>`_,
  by Pierre-Marie Pédrot).
- **Added:**
  Added support for automatic insertion of coercions in :cmd:`Search`
  patterns. Additionally, head patterns are now automatically
  interpreted as types
  (`#13255 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13255>`_,
  fixes `#13244 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13244>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).
- **Added:**
  The :cmd:`Proof using` command can now be used without loading the
  Ltac plugin (`-noinit` mode)
  (`#13339 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13339>`_,
  by Théo Zimmermann).
- **Added:**
  Clarify in the documentation that :cmd:`Add ML Path` is not exported to compiled files
  (`#13345 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13345>`_,
  fixes `#13344 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/13344>`_,
  by Hugo Herbelin).

> - **Changed:**
>   Option -native-compiler of the configure script now impacts the
>   default value of the option -native-compiler of coqc. The
>   -native-compiler option of the configure script is added an ondemand
>   value, which becomes the default, thus preserving the previous default
>   behavior.
>   The stdlib is still precompiled when configuring with -native-compiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Changed:**
  Option `-native-compiler` of the configure script now impacts the
  default value of the `-native-compiler` option of coqc. The
  `-native-compiler` option of the configure script is added as an on demand
  value, which becomes the default, thus preserving the previous default
  behavior.
  The stdlib is still precompiled when configuring with `-native-compiler`
```

  yes. It is not precompiled otherwise.
  This an implementation of point 2 of
  `CEP #48 <https://github.com/coq/ceps/pull/48>`_
  (`#13352 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13352>`_,
  by Pierre Roux).
- **Deprecated:**
  The default value for hint locality is currently :attr:`local` in a section and
  :attr:`global` otherwise, but is scheduled to change in a future release. For the
  time being, adding hints outside of sections without specifying an explicit
  locality is therefore triggering a deprecation warning. It is recommended to
  use :attr:`export` whenever possible
  (`#13384 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13384>`_,
  by Pierre-Marie Pédrot).
- **Changed:**
  The :attr:`export` locality can now be used for all Hint commands,

>   including Hint Cut, Hint Mode, Hint Transparent / Opaque and
>   Remove Hints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  including :tacn:`Hint Cut`, :tacn:`Hint Mode`, :tacn:`Hint Transparent` / `Opaque` and
  :tacn:`Remove Hints`
```

  (`#13388 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13388>`_,
  by Pierre-Marie Pédrot).

Tools
^^^^^

- **Changed:**

>   Adding the possibility in coq_makefile to directly set the installation folders,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Added the ability for coq_makefile to directly set the installation folders,
```

  by Olivier Laurent).
- **Changed:**
  Change the sort of cyclic numbers from Type to Set. For backward compatibility, a dynamic sort was defined in the 3 packages bignums, coqprime and color.
  See for example commit 6f62bda in bignums.
  (`#12801 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12801>`_,
  by Vincent Semeria).
- **Changed:**
  ``Require Import Coq.nsatz.NsatzTactic`` now allows using :tacn:`nsatz`
  with `Z` and `Q` without having to supply instances or using ``Require Import Coq.nsatz.Nsatz``, which
  transitively requires unneeded files declaring axioms used in the reals
  (`#12861 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12861>`_,
  fixes `#12860 <https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/12860>`_,
  by Jason Gross).
- **Fixed:**
  `Coq.Program.Wf.Fix_F_inv` and `Coq.Program.Wf.Fix_eq` are now axiom-free. They no longer assume proof irrelevance.
  (`#13365 <https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13365>`_,
  by Li-yao Xia).

Infrastructure and dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- **Changed:**
  Coq's core system now uses the `zarith <https://github.com/ocaml/Zarith>`_
  library, based on GNU's gmp instead of ``num`` which is
  deprecated upstream. The custom ``bigint`` module is

>   not longer provided; note that the ``micromega`` still uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  not longer provided; note that ``micromega`` still uses
```
